301/class-14.md, before:

# Diversity & Inclusion in the Tech Industry

## History: That Time When Women Stopped Coding

- What occurred during the same time as the beginning of the decline of women in computer science?

Around 1984 small home computers became available and were starting to be advertised and targeted towards boys and people either had computers or did not have computers.

- Why does it matter that males had been playing on computers growing up?

They could learn how to use the computers and learn how to program their games.

## History: Why Diversity Matters 

- When are diversity efforts most successful?

Diversity efforts are most successful when they’re driven by a commitment from company leaders.

- Why do diverse companies perform better?

In a lot of different fields, diverse teams offer significant benefits for teams focused on creativity and innovation because diverse groups of people bring different ways of seeing a problem and solving it.

- Give an example of how a diverse company can serve a diverse user base or vise-versa.

One example is how YouTube had a team of almost entirely right-handed developers and noone really considered left-handed people. Because of this, the 5-10% of left-handed users ended up with videos being uploaded upside down. 

>References
>
>[When Women Stopped Coding](https://www.npr.org/sections/money/2014/10/21/357629765/when-women-stopped-coding)
>
>[Employee breakdown of key technology companies](https://informationisbeautiful.net/visualizations/diversity-in-tech/)
>
>[Why diversity matters to your tech company](https://www.usatoday.com/story/tech/columnist/2015/07/21/why-diversity-matters-your-tech-company/30419871/)

Commit message:

adds what i want to know

301/class-14.md, after:

# Diversity & Inclusion in the Tech Industry

## History: That Time When Women Stopped Coding

- What occurred during the same time as the beginning of the decline of women in computer science?

Around 1984 small home computers became available and were starting to be advertised and targeted towards boys and people either had computers or did not have computers.

- Why does it matter that males had been playing on computers growing up?

They could learn how to use the computers and learn how to program their games.

## History: Why Diversity Matters 

- When are diversity efforts most successful?

Diversity efforts are most successful when they’re driven by a commitment from company leaders.

- Why do diverse companies perform better?

In a lot of different fields, diverse teams offer significant benefits for teams focused on creativity and innovation because diverse groups of people bring different ways of seeing a problem and solving it.

- Give an example of how a diverse company can serve a diverse user base or vise-versa.

One example is how YouTube had a team of almost entirely right-handed developers and noone really considered left-handed people. Because of this, the 5-10% of left-handed users ended up with videos being uploaded upside down. 

## Things I want to know more about

- How I can affect or impact the diversity in tech

>References
>
>[When Women Stopped Coding](https://www.npr.org/sections/money/2014/10/21/357629765/when-women-stopped-coding)
>
>[Employee breakdown of key technology companies](https://informationisbeautiful.net/visualizations/diversity-in-tech/)
>
>[Why diversity matters to your tech company](https://www.usatoday.com/story/tech/columnist/2015/07/21/why-diversity-matters-your-tech-company/30419871/)
